---
layout: post
title: Paris
date: 2014-08-30 21:45
published: false
categories:
- life
- paris
---

I've been in Paris for a little over 3 weeks now and it has been awesome. The city is beautiful, the people are great, and the food is amazing.
It's been a smooth transition. There wasn't much jetlag I don't think, but I was definitely tired from a summer of working. At first, I really
struggled with listening comprehension because __les parisiennes__ speak so quickly. 3 weeks later, I'm still struggling but with tons of
improvement. At restaurants, I speak only french with the servers but in conversation I still have a lot of ground to cover.

Doing the early start was a great idea and I'm very happy about it. We learned about the Parisian culture, do's and don't's, and how to navigate
the city. Getting familiar with the metro was pretty simple and only took a few days for me and I think I blend well in the crowd as a Parisian.

Recently at a bar, my roommates and I met some people a few years older than me and they wanted to practice their english on us. So while they
spoke english to me, I spoke french to them. One of the guys said my french was really good (despite how little I know). There were some older
women sitting next at the table next to me and my buddies and one of our new French friends and his wife decided to go over there and ask how old
the women were and whether they were interested in any of the three of us Americans. The one girl I thought was gorgeous, was 29 years old and she said she liked me. Mind-Blown! The guy came back and told me what she said and I asked if she spoke any english and he said no but if I spoke english to her, she would think I was speaking the language of love haha. Unfortunately, I kind of wussed out because my friends and I were trying to catch the metro back in 5 minutes to get home and I didn't just want to say "__bonsoir!__" and then leave. Next time I go out, I'm not letting the metro ruin my night and I'll walk home after I've scored with the babes.
